It's time for another project and this time we're going to use Python to send emails.
That's right.
We can send e-mails with python.
Now we'll explore why this might be useful later on.
But I want to give you a heads up Python has a built in e-mail module and this module actually got updated
with Python three point six.
So I'm gonna show you the latest version when you google how to send e-mails with Python.
You might see a lot of outdated ways to send e-mails.
So just a heads up that you might see something different than what I'm about to show you.
But as of recording this video this is the latest way to send emails.
OK.
So why might this be useful.
Well imagine you have a list of e-mails that you've collected and you want to launch a new startup.
You want people to know about your startup.
Right.
So we can create a program that sends e-mails to maybe hundreds thousands of people at the same time
maybe a customized e-mail with their name to promote our product.
Now we'll get into spamming and things like that later on but you might be thinking to yourself why
do we need Python for this.
For example there are tools like MailChimp that is a software subscription based product that allows
us to do this.
We can collect e-mails and also send customized e-mails.
And you're right.
Companies like MailChimp or Miller Lite or there's hundreds of them allow us to send lots of e-mails
to potential customers to sale leads in order to try and grow our business.
But I want to show you how to do with python because there are times that it might come in useful.
So let's get to it and I'm going to use this project as an occasion for us to learn a few built in packages
in python.
Now the first one we're going to use is the SMP T.P. lib so S.M. T.P. lib module.
And we're also going to say from email dot messages import email message and this should be email message.
Again this is the e mail module that comes built in to Python.
And actually I'll link over here where he shows you some of the legacy API so that is the out dated
way to use things we're going to do the E stored messages way of sending e-mails.
Now the other one is as empty P.
Now SMP is going to allow us to create what we call an S teepee server.
Anytime you send emails to anybody it needs to have a server that communicates the language of the email.
And this is what is MTBE is useful.
For example on a Web sites you might see HDP or HDP s as the protocol of communication between a browser
and a server in the same way.
Emails have their own protocol for communicating and that's through SMP P as a matter of fact the acronym
stands for simple mail transfer protocol.
It's a protocol or a standard for e mails to be sent from computer to computer.
G.M. uses this Hotmail uses pretty much most email clients.
I'm going to link to some resource if you want to read more about SMP.
But the key thing is if we want to send an email we need as empty server now from here.
We're going to dive into how to send our first e-mail before we get into that and the next video I want
you to go ahead and create an email account.
If you don't have one I'm going to use a dummy e-mail account a Gmail account that I just created because
what we're going to do is we're going to have to log into this using a password our user name and actually
send an email from this email account without actually using this browser.
So go ahead and create a dummy Gmail account or you can use your regular one if you want.
But I like to keep my passwords just away from everything and I don't really want to share my personal
e-mail password with these so I'm going to use this one.
All right.
Let's take a break and send our first e-mail and the next video.